---
layout: post
title: "Cell Phone Math"
date: 2011-10-07T09:46:00
comments: true
tags:
- nerdliness
link: false
---
This week's announcement of the iPhone 4S has me in a lather to get an
iPhone. For some time now I've been less enthusiastic about my
Android-based HTC Incredible. It's a great phone that has served me well
for the last 16 months; the camera is outstanding, the form factor is
pleasing, and it supports all of the daily activities I wanted it for. 

While Google is continuing to update Android, I am at the mercy of
Verizon and HTC for updates to my handset. In the Apple ecosystem, if
your device is new enough, you get the updates the day they are
available. The Gingerbread update to my phone was rumored for months
before finally happening. I grew impatient with the waiting and rooted
my phone and installed a Gingerbread based ROM. 

Also, I was never happy with the crapware that is forced on the phone by the
carrier, and the recurring malware issues are cause for concern too.

The carriers recognize the popularity of smartphones and charge
accordingly for them. The early termination fee to get out of my
contract is a hefty $350. Unless I pay that I am tied to Verizon until
next June. My update eligibility date isn't until February 9th, which is longer than I would like to wait for a new phone.

If I were to order a new iPhone 4S today, the cost to me would be $649
-- a $450 up-charge over the base price with a two-year contract. This
is the same price as getting the unlocked, no-contract required phone.
If I understand the math correctly, I could save $100 by terminating my
contract with Verizon ($350 cost) and buying the iPhone from AT&T for
$199. 

All of this dithering is well into first-world-problem territory. I've
got a perfectly functional, some would say exceptionally well
functioning, smartphone. It takes pictures, sends and receives emails,
browses the Internet, gives turn-by-turn directions, and fits in my
pocket. 

Waiting until February 9th (125 days)(Not that I counted or anything) to
switch to the iPhone 4S is the smart thing to do. It saves me $450. And,
based on the 20-month upgrade eligibility cycle that I appear to be on,
getting a new phone in February 2012 would make me eligible for the
iPhone 5S about October 2013. (Again, not that I counted, or anything.)

Waiting until June 2012 and the expiration of my current contract, would
allow me to switch carriers, if I wanted, but then I'd want to wait
until the fall announcement of the next generation iPhone. Which
basically means waiting another year for a new phone. I don't think I'm
that patient.

So I either spend a small fortune ($650) on a vanity purchase today, or
wait 125 days to spend a slightly smaller fortune ($200) in February.
The third possibility is to call Verizon and gently point out that I
could save $100 on an iPhone purchase today by abandoning Verizon for
AT&T, and hope they take pity on my and move up my upgrade date, thereby
waiving the $450 surcharge.

Maybe I'll turn off the Internet and go sit in the sunshine instead.
