---
layout: post
title: "There and Back Again"
date: 2011-09-28T11:09:00
comments: true
tags:
- life
link: false
---
Sibylle and I just returned from a short trip to Germany. We hadn't been
since May 2010 and the occasion of her thirty year high school reunion
seemed like a good reason to go. Sibylle planned for the week off when
she was setting up her fall teaching schedule, and so we booked tickets,
made a room reservation at our favorite hotel in BÃ¼rg, packed our bags,
and went.

## No Mail
We needed to mail a letter before we left and managed not to visit a
mail box on our way out of town Wednesday evening. The Holiday Inn
Express were we stayed didn't have an out-going mail drop, so we took
the letter with us to the airport. Guess what you can't do at the
airport? Mail anything. In the wake of 9-11 all US Postal Services were
removed from all airports. There is a package service where you can put
your pocket knife or 4 ounce bottle of what ever in a pouch and ship it
to yourself for an exhorbitant fee, but you cannot mail a stamped
letter.

## Economy Comfort
When we bought our plane tickets we were offered "economy comfort" seats
on the overseas legs of our flight, for a mere $40 per seat. We decided
to splurge and were very pleased with the result. The seat rows were
considerably farther apart, and our seats reclined much further than
normal. It was possible to be less uncomfortable than riding in the
rather cramped coach section. Both going over and coming back we were
able to sleep some and arrive a bit more rested.

## Intestinal Flu
Unfortunately we both came down with some kind of intestinal flu or
virus. Neither of us felt particularly good the entire time we were in
Germany. Sibylle felt so poorly on Monday that she spent the entire day
in bed asleep. It was very disappointing and frustrating to have
traveled all the way to Germany only to be sick enough that we didn't
want to be away from a bathroom. Public restrooms are few and far
between in Europe, and leaving our hotel meant taking a very real chance
that we'd need a bathroom and not have one available. No fun.

## Internet Woes
Internet access is far easier to come by now than it was four years ago
when we made our first trip to Germany together. The Starbucks in
Stadtmitte Stuttgart has free wi-fi, as did our hotel. And our favorite
restuarant in Winnenden sits next to an open wi-fi hotspot. All of which
means we can check email and keep up with the world around us as we
choose. However, we had difficulty getting to our domain hosted email
accounts while at the hotel. I suspect their router was setup to block
some ports, and unfortunately those included the ones used by our domain
host for secure email. Also, I wasn't able to use secure shell to access
either of my computers here in the States, which mean I was unable to do
any remote posting to my web site.

## Home Again
We are safely home again, and in the process of readjusting to a new
time zone. I know we'll have other trips to Europe, I only hope that we
don't end up sick again.
