---
layout: post
title: "Learning to Touch Type"
date: 2013-09-06T10:49:00
comments: true
tags:
- nerdliness
link: false
---
When I was in high school I took a typing class one semester. Each student had
his or her own manual typewriter and we spent each class period learning how to
type through a series of rote exercises. If I recall correctly we were allowed
only two mistakes per page and we were not allowed to use erasable paper. I got
to retype a lot of assignments as it was hard too keep up with the assignments
and not make mistakes. My typing speed by the end of the 18 weeks was in the
middle 20 range, perhaps 24 or 25 words per minute.

In college I first programmed on card punch machines and later on terminals.
Card punch machines are even less forgiving than typing paper -- once you make
a mistake the entire card is ruined and you have to re-punch it. I tended to
punch slowly so as not to make costly mistakes.

After transitioning to terminals where it was possible to backspace and correct
errors my keying speed increased but so did my mistakes. I simply learned to
back up and fix them. What I should have done was slow down and learn to touch
type. While that had been the goal of my high school class, years of bad habits
left me with my own rather unique hunt-and-peck typing style.

I type using only the thumb, fore and middle fingers on my right hand and the fore and
middle fingers on my left hand. When writing prose I am able to type without
looking at the key board. However when I need to type symbols I sometimes need
to look to see where the character is located. 

Using a couple of different online typing tests, I tested my typing speed this
morning. The average works out to 56 words per minute, usually with several
errors. 

My goal for the next 30 days is to practice typing at least 30 minutes a day
using [Peter's Online Typing Course](http://typing-lessons.org "Peter's Online
Typing Course"). I like the breakdown of the lessons there. I am not so much
interested in increasing my overall typing speed, but will happily take any
increase that occurs. What I am interested in is improving my touch typing
ability. I'd like to use all eight fingers properly and to be able to type
without looking at the keyboard at all.
