---
title: "Jabra Enhance Select 100 Hearing Aids"
date: 2023-07-12T20:36:55-05:00
draft: true

tags:
- hearing
- health
---
Three years ago, just before the lock down at the start of the pandemic, I had a hearing evaluation.
The audiologist felt that I should investigate hearing aids. I had made a followup appointment to
discuss options, but canceled it when the lock down started.

In July 2020 I bought a pair of ZVox personal hearing amplifiers. These look and act like hearing
aids, but aren't exactly hearing aids. Fewer features, no real programming to match your hearing
profile, and limited ability to handle various situations. They made an immediate improvement in my
hearing. My wife said that I spoke less loudly, and that I asked for things to be repeated far less
often.

The hearing amplifiers made sounds crisp. The snap of a wall light switch, the sound of a spoon
dropped into the sink, and even the rustle of my hair against my earsâ€”all these sounds and more were
suddenly a part of my life in a new way. There were drawbacks, most notably the inability to filter
some background noises. Going outside on a windy day could be painfully loud. Highway sounds, even
in the mode designed to work in noisy environments, were annoyingly loud. On the whole they were a
positive experience.

Over the last 6 months or so I started to notice a drop off in battery life. The ZVox are
rechargeable, and, when new, lasted 14 or more hours. After 2 1/2 years they were barely lasting 8
or 9 hours. Eventually the left one stopped working properly. All it would do is produce a loud
squealing sound. Between the short battery life, and only having one working one, I stopped using
them.

I was acutely aware of having to ask for things to be repeated. I felt isolated. Fortunately
over-the-counter hearing aids are now available. Not just "personal hearing amplifiers", but true
hearing aids. I did some research, but didn't pull the trigger. My wife gently reminded me until I
decided to get the Jabra Enhance Select 100 hearing aids.

They came today. Wearing them is every bit as revaltory as the hearing amplifiers were three years
ago. Only, the shortcomings of the hearing amplifiers are addressed in these hearing aids. Wind
noise is absent, driving doesn't treat me to tire noise, and the settings and control options are
far, far better.

The iPhone's Accessibility features include a "hearing devices" section. I was able to pair the
hearing aids through that feature. Jabra also provides a free app. Using either I can adjust the
volume, change modes, control bass, mid-range, and treble, and see the current charge level.

The Jabra's come with a 100 day trial, so I'll get to really try them before committing 100% to
them. There is also a financing option that allows me to pay them off over 18 months, interest free.
