---
title: "Working From Home vs Living at Work"
date: 2022-12-01T13:38:46-06:00
draft: true

tags:
- work
- life
---
One of the seasonal catalogues we get had a tee-shirt with this saying on it:

> Working form home or living at work?

I've been full-time working from home since March 2020, when the pandemic started. And I like to
think that I am working from home, and not living at work. I have some pretty good boundaries about
work, and in the early days of the pandemic I worked to establish a routine that has helped me to
keep work and home separate, even though I'm working from our home.

# Physical Space
I am fortunate to have a spare bedroom that I use as my office. Having a physically separate space
to do work from is important. I know when I am at my desk, seated in front of my work computer, that
I am "at work".

# Clothing
Odd as this may sound, I still wear the same clothing / outfits to work at home as I did when I
traveled to the office to work. My typical Monday - Thursday outfit is a polo shirt over jeans. In
the winter I add a nice pullover sweater for warmth. On Fridays I wear a nice tee-shirt. At the end
of the work day, I change my clothes. Take off the polo and it's undershirt and put on a tee-shirt.
In the summer I shed my jeans and put on shorts.

It's a subtle mental shift, but one I am aware of.

# Devices
As a system administrator who participates in multiple on-call rotations, I have some work-only apps
installed on my smartphone. If I could get a phone through my employer, I'd remove all the
work-related apps from my personal device.

As for my other computers: laptop, desktop, tablet, I removed my work email and calendar. It's
enough to have it on my phone should I need to see either when I'm not at my desk.

# Focus Mode
Using the iPhone provided Focus mode, I created a "weekend" focus that mutes all notifications and
hides badges on my work mail account, Teams, and Calendar. It activates at 4 pm on Friday and runs
through 6:30 am on Monday. Not seeing a red badge with an ever growing count of unread emails does
wonders to reduce my weekend stress level.

# Family
My wife owns a private piano studio that operates out of the lower, walkout, level of our home. She
has been 100% "remote" her entire career. Without really discussing it we both act as if I am not at
home when I'm at work. If she needs something she texts me or sometimes comes and knocks on the door
frame. She always prefaces her question or comment with, "Are you busy?"
